Cockpit 236 (#377)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2021-01-21-cockpit-236.md

---
title: Cockpit 236
author: pitti
date: 2021-01-07
tags: cockpit linux
slug: cockpit-236
category: release
summary: Cockpit with SSH key improvements and motd editing
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).  We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit version 236.

> In the last two weeks the Cockpit authors primarily worked on some bug fixes, internal refactoring, dropping some obsolete dependencies like [jquery-flot](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jquery-flot), replacing some custom React components with standard [PatternFly](https://www.patternfly.org/v4/) ones, build system simplifications, and test stabilization. These don't have an user-visible effect, but will make Cockpit easier to develop in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the last two weeks the Cockpit authors primarily worked on some bug fixes, internal refactoring, dropping some obsolete dependencies like [jquery-flot](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jquery-flot), replacing some custom React components with standard [PatternFly](https://www.patternfly.org/v4/) ones, build system simplifications, and test stabilization. These don't have a user-visible effect, but will make Cockpit easier to develop in the future.
```

....because english

Also: one might argue that bug-fixes are user-visible.  At least, they do more than "make Cockpit easier to develop in the future".

Maybe it makes sense to add a header for this item?  Or at least add a bullet point when you create the tag.

Author: Good point -- I'll re-drop the bug fixes. We have never mentioned them in release notes, and we always have some.

Author: Moved to separate header (@garrett suggested the same) and fixed the typo, thanks!

> In the last two weeks the Cockpit authors primarily worked on some bug fixes, internal refactoring, dropping some obsolete dependencies like [jquery-flot](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jquery-flot), replacing some custom React components with standard [PatternFly](https://www.patternfly.org/v4/) ones, build system simplifications, and test stabilization. These don't have an user-visible effect, but will make Cockpit easier to develop in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Bug fixes & performance improvements

In the last two weeks the Cockpit authors primarily worked on some bug fixes, internal refactoring, dropping some obsolete dependencies like [jquery-flot](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jquery-flot), replacing some custom React components with standard [PatternFly](https://www.patternfly.org/v4/) ones, build system simplifications, and test stabilization. These don't have an user-visible effect, but will make Cockpit easier to develop in the future.
```

It feels like this should have a heading. It _doesn't have to be_ in RPM release notes; it can be a website exclusive (or it _could_ be in the notes too). What should it be called though? General? Maintenance? "Bug fixes & performance improvements"?

I went with the generic Google Play Store app update phrase, kind of as a joke. :wink: At least here, it's true and we explain it.

Reviewer 2: BTW: GitHub's diff is funny. I just added a line with text and a blank line between them. But it's like "everything before and after 'fixes' is different". :laughing:

Author: Thanks! Moved to separate header, and dropped the "bug fixes" part, as that's a tautology for cockpit releases :-)

## fslist channels: Include properties of changed files

The [fslist channel API](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/blob/master/doc/protocol.md#payload-fslist1) lists files in a directory, watches for further changes to files, and sends events when changes happen. These notifications now include additional properties about the file: the owner and group name, file size, and time of last modification.

> This was aimed at making it more efficient to implement a file manager Cockpit UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These changes were made with the goal of implementing an efficient file manager UI within Cockpit.
```

Author: "within Cockpit" sounds like a too strong promise -- we don't plan to build this ourselves, and certainly not inside the cockpit.git project. I changed this to a hybrid version of our proposals.

> Thanks to leomoty for this contribution!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Thanks to leomoty for this contribution!_
```

_Italics!_ :grin:

Author: _applied_, **thanks**! :grin:

---
title: Cockpit 236
author: pitti
date: 2021-01-07
tags: cockpit linux
slug: cockpit-236
category: release
summary: Cockpit with SSH key improvements and motd editing
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).  We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit version 236.

## fslist channels: Include properties of changed files

The [fslist channel API](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/blob/master/doc/protocol.md#payload-fslist1) lists files in a directory, watches for further changes to files, and sends events when changes happen. These notifications now include additional properties about the file: the owner and group name, file size, and time of last modification.

> These changes were made with the goal of implementing an efficient file manager Cockpit page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These changes have been made with the intent to implement an efficient file manager page for Cockpit.
```

Further suggestions... Perhaps we should even drop "for Cockpit", given the context?

But I'm still not so happy with this sentence. It feels clunky. I wonder if @allisonkarlitskaya might have additional ideas about it?

Author: But this is still too strong. There is *no* promise that such a page will ever be built, and the cockpit team does not plan to do that either. It came from a contributor, and is just an idea.

 - "This feature is a requisite for building an efficient file manager page."
 - "This allows the efficient implementation of a future file manager page."
 - 
:thinking:

I'm also fine with dropping that sentence entirely, if we don't have a good way to convey this.

Reviewer 2: Continued in another thread @ https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io/pull/377#discussion_r561707308 (at least for a suggestion, as it combines the sentences).

> These changes were made with the goal of implementing an efficient file manager Cockpit page.
> 
> _Thanks to leomoty for this contribution!_

Reviewer 2: Continuing from above, but including both sentences (which is why this breaks the conversation thread a bit).

Perhaps something like this?

```suggestion
This contribution from leomoty provides a backend for efficient file browsing, which could serve as the basis of a third-party file selector or file manager. _Thanks, leomoty!_
```

Author: We already have a "file selector", and that is usually a short-term thing.

This contribution from leomoty can serve as the basis of a third-party file manager page. _Thanks leomoty!_

?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This contribution from leomoty can serve as the basis of a third-party file manager page. _Thanks, leomoty!_
```

Yeah, sounds good. Adding as a suggestion here, so it's just a click to change. :wink:
